Making decisions while navigating imprecise and confusing information presents significant challenges, especially in multimodal environments. Uncertainty becomes critical when fusing data from several sources to forecast real-world issues. Although frequently employed to manage uncertainty, techniques like the Bayesian network (BN) and Dempster-Shafer Evidence theory (DST) have limitations. BN can produce surprising results when dealing with similar characteristics and uncertainty from several sources. Concurrently, DST may have trouble assigning belief when evidence is insufficient or contradicting. The paper offers four novel solutions for multimodal late fusion based on individual modality evidence without altering the core theoretical framework. Of the four sections, the first two are based on modality result specific, and the last two are class level specific to ensure a sophisticated relation of fusion results with state-of-the-art problems. Later, the four solution results combined using a weighted average by aggregation will provide a robust fusion outcome. The study concentrated on the evidence offered by each modality, such as standard deviation (STD), mean, class level accuracy, model accuracy, etc., to provide a probabilistic outcome and uncertainty level employing late fusion. This integration intends to give researchers studying multimodal classification problems a state-of-the-art overview of probabilistic strategy via comparison by mathematical proof while also offering a comprehensive solution for managing uncertainty in multimodal decision-making at late fusion.
